>1. SABRE: ligand/structure-based virtual screening approach using consensus molecular-shape pattern recognition.
We present an efficient and rational ligand/structure shape-based virtual
screening approach combining our previous ligand shape-based similarity SABRE
(shape-approach-based routines enhanced) and the 3D shape of the receptor binding
site. Our approach exploits the pharmacological preferences of a number of known 
active ligands to take advantage of the structural diversities and chemical
similarities, using a linear combination of weighted molecular shape density.
Furthermore, the algorithm generates a consensus molecular-shape pattern
recognition that is used to filter and place the candidate structure into the
binding pocket. The descriptor pool used to construct the consensus
molecular-shape pattern consists of four dimensional (4D) fingerprints generated 
from the distribution of conformer states available to a molecule and the 3D
shapes of a set of active ligands computed using SABRE software. The virtual
screening efficiency of SABRE was validated using the Database of Useful Decoys
(DUD) and the filtered version (WOMBAT) of 10 DUD targets. The ligand/structure
shape-based similarity SABRE algorithm outperforms several other widely used
virtual screening methods which uses the data fusion of multiscreening tools (2D 
and 3D fingerprints) and demonstrates a superior early retrieval rate of active
compounds (EF(0.1%) = 69.0% and EF(1%) = 98.7%) from a large size of ligand
database (~95,000 structures). Therefore, our developed similarity approach can
be of particular use for identifying active compounds that are similar to
reference molecules and predicting activity against other targets
(chemogenomics). An academic license of the SABRE program is available on
request.