>15. An automated computer vision and robotics-based technique for 3-D flexible biomolecular docking and matching.
The generation of binding modes between two molecules, also known as molecular
docking, is a key problem in rational drug design and biomolecular recognition.
Docking a ligand, e.g., a drug molecule or a protein molecule, to a protein
receptor, involves recognition of molecular surfaces as molecules interact at
their surface. Recent studies report that the activity of many molecules induces 
conformational transitions by 'hinge-bending', which involves movements of
relatively rigid parts with respect to each other. In ligand-receptor binding,
relative rotational movements of molecular substructures about their common
hinges have been observed. For automatically predicting flexible molecular
interactions, we adapt a new technique developed in Computer Vision and Robotics 
for the efficient recognition of partially occluded articulated objects. These
type of objects consist of rigid parts which are connected by rotary joints
(hinges). Our approach is based on an extension and generalization of the
Geometric Hashing and Generalized Hough Transform paradigm for rigid object
recognition. Unlike other techniques which match each part individually, our
approach exploits forcefully and efficiently enough the fact that the different
rigid parts do belong to the same flexible molecule. We show experimental results
obtained by an implementation of the algorithm for rigid and flexible docking.
While the 'correct', crystal-bound complex is obtained with a small RMSD,
additional, predictive 'high scoring' binding modes are generated as well. The
diverse applications and implications of this general, powerful tool are
discussed.