>3. Discriminative Chemical Patterns: Automatic and Interactive Design.
The classification of molecules with respect to their inhibiting, activating, or 
toxicological potential constitutes a central aspect in the field of
cheminformatics. Often, a discriminative feature is needed to distinguish two
different molecule sets. Besides physicochemical properties, substructures and
chemical patterns belong to the descriptors most frequently applied for this
purpose. As a commonly used example of this descriptor class, SMARTS strings
represent a powerful concept for the representation and processing of abstract
chemical patterns. While their usage facilitates a convenient way to apply
previously derived classification rules on new molecule sets, the manual
generation of useful SMARTS patterns remains a complex and time-consuming
process. Here, we introduce SMARTSminer, a new algorithm for the automatic
derivation of discriminative SMARTS patterns from preclassified molecule sets.
Based on a specially adapted subgraph mining algorithm, SMARTSminer identifies
structural features that are frequent in only one of the given molecule classes. 
In comparison to elemental substructures, it also supports the consideration of
general and specific SMARTS features. Furthermore, SMARTSminer is integrated into
an interactive pattern editor named SMARTSeditor. This allows for an intuitive
visualization on the basis of the SMARTSviewer concept as well as interactive
adaption and further improvement of the generated patterns. Additionally, a new
molecular matching feature provides an immediate feedback on a pattern's matching
behavior across the molecule sets. We demonstrate the utility of the SMARTSminer 
functionality and its integration into the SMARTSeditor software in several
different classification scenarios.